scripts/README.md, before:

This directory contains utilities to help docker-odoo deployment.

> Most of these utilities are installed automatically when you run the main `setup.sh` script from the root of the repository. The instructions below are for manual installation or for understanding how they work.

<details>
<summary>

# Backup Data

</summary>

This utilities will backup Odoo database and its datadir into a zip file. This zip file can be restored using Odoo Database Manager.

See the example file to create the data backup utility (`./scripts/example/backupdata.sh.example`).

  1. Copy the example file. This will export the service name from your cloned respository dirname.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cp ./scripts/example/backupdata.sh.example ./scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  2. Edit your example file with your favorite text-editor (`vim` or `nano`, etc)
      ```bash
      vi ./scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  3. You need to find (`ctrl + f`) the `enter` word to see which value should be changed

  4. Save the file and change the permission.
      ```bash
      sudo chmod 755 ./scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  5. Create a soft-link to system-wide bin
      ```bash
      sudo ln -s $PWD/scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME /usr/local/sbin/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  6. Done, you can try to run the command.
      ```bash
      backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

</details>

<details>
<summary>

# Database Cloner

</summary>

This utilies will clone the database from the current deployment to it's dev (development), stg (staging), tst (testing), or other deployment.

See the example file to create the database cloner utility (`./scripts/example/databasecloner.sh.example`).

  1. Copy the example file. This will export the service name from your cloned respository dirname.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cp ./scripts/example/databasecloner.sh.example ./scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  2. Edit your example file with your favorite text-editor (`vim` or `nano`, etc)
      ```bash
      vi ./scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  3. You need to find (`ctrl + f`) the `enter` word to see which value should be changed

  4. Save the file and change the permission.
      ```bash
      sudo chmod 755 ./scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  5. Create a soft-link to system-wide bin
      ```bash
      sudo ln -s $PWD/scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME /usr/local/sbin/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  6. Done, you can try to run the command.
      ```bash
      databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

</details>

<details>
<summary>

# Restore Snapshot

</summary>

To use restore snapshot, make sure the main directory (`../`) is has the same name of the archive file. For example, `snapshot-docker-odoo.tar.zst` the main directory name should be `docker-odoo` removing the `snapshot-` prefix and `.tar.zst` suffix.

Before you run the restore snapshot script, you need to prepare [snapshot utilities first](#snapshot-utilities).

</details>

<details>
  <summary>

  # Snapshot Utilities

  </summary>

  See the example file to create the snapshot utility (`./scripts/example/snapshot.sh.example`).

  1. Copy the example file. This will export the service name from your cloned repository dirname.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cp ./scripts/example/snapshot.sh.example ./scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  2. Edit your example file with your favorite text-editor (`vim` or `nano`, etc)
      ```bash
      vi ./scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  3. You need to find (`ctrl + f`) the `enter` word to see which value should be changed

  4. Save the file and change the permission.
      ```bash
      sudo chmod 755 ./scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  5. Create a soft-link to system-wide bin
      ```bash
      sudo ln -s $PWD/scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME /usr/local/sbin/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  6. Add a new crontab to run your script (You can skip this step and continue to step 7 if you don't want to use cron for automatic snapshot).
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cat << EOF > ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      SHELL=/bin/bash
      PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

      27 */4 * * * root "/usr/local/sbin/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME"

      EOF

      sudo mv ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME /etc/cron.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo chown root: /etc/cron.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo chmod 644 /etc/cron.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo systemctl restart cron
      ```

      > ⚠️ Replace `$SERVICE_NAME` to the value of your root repository name (`basename "$PWD"`).

  7. Rotate the logfile.
      > ⚠️ Make sure you are in the root repository.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      sudo cat << EOF > ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      /var/log/odoo/_utilities/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME.log {
          rotate 4
          su root syslog
          olddir /var/log/odoo/_utilities/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME.log-old
          weekly
          missingok
          #notifempty
          nocreate
          createolddir 775 odoo root
          renamecopy
          compress
          compresscmd /usr/bin/xz
          compressoptions -ze -T 0
          delaycompress
          dateext
          dateformat -%Y%m%d-%H%M%S
      }

      EOF

      sudo chown root: ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo chmod 644 ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo mv ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME /etc/logrotate.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  8. You can setup Google Cloud Storage for automatic rotate snapshot file or use `logrotate` on Ubuntu.

  <details>
  <summary>

  ## Setup Google Cloud Storage as the storage of your snapshot

  </summary>

  Setup `google-cloud-cli` to run move your backup file to Google Cloud using `gsutil`
  1. Prepare the key from service account for our server access to gcloud storage
     <details>
     <summary>
     The steps to prepare the service account
     </summary>

     1. Go to this page to get `gcs-backupper` key: https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts
     2. Then, click on your service account (example: gcs-backupper@ryumada.iam.gserviceaccount.com). You will be directed to the detail page of that service account.
     3. Click on the `Keys` tab.
     4. Create a new key by clicking `Add Key` button.
     5. Then click `Create new key` menu.
     6. Download the key as json file and move it to your server.
     7. Move your key file to that directory and set the owner of the keyfile to the user.

      </details>

  2. Install `google-cloud-cli` from GCP Official docs
     <details>
     <summary>
     Follow this docs for the guide:
     </summary>

     [Install the gcloud CLI  |  Google Cloud CLI Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)
     </details>

  3. Activate the service account (auth using the json key)
     <details>
     <summary>
      The steps to activate the service account
     </summary>

     1. Move the `json` key file to the server using `scp`

         ```bash
         scp -P $YOUR_SSH_PORT /path/to/your/gcloud_service_account.json odoo@your-server-ip:/opt/.keys/gcloud_service_account.json
         ```

     2. Create a `keys` directory in `/opt` and set up the least permission to the storage.

        ```bash
        sudo mkdir /opt/.keys

        sudo chown $USER: /opt/.keys
        # denied access for other user
        sudo chmod 750 /opt/.keys

        sudo chown $USER: /opt/.keys/gcloud_service_account.json
        sudo chmod 440 /opt/.keys/gcloud_service_account.json
        ```

     3. Use Linux user that used for runnig the backup utility, normally the user is `odoo`

        ```bash
        sudo su odoo
        ```

     4. Activate the service account

        ```bash
        gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file $JSON_KEY_FILE
        ```

        [gcloud auth activate-service-account  |  Google Cloud CLI Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/activate-service-account)
     </details>

   4. Test your service account

      ```bash
      gsutil ls gs://$YOUR_GCS_BUCKET/
      ```

      The command will list objects available on `$YOUR_GCS_BUCKET` bucket.

      If the command show the list of files, it means that your service account is successfully authenticated.

   5. Setup object lifecycle and versioning to your bucket

      See this documentation to know how it's works:
      - https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/lifecycle
      - https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/object-versioning

  </details>

</details>

Commit message:

feat: Introduce agent knowledge and rules, standardize bash scripts with improved logging and error handling, and update various configurations and Nginx settings.

scripts/README.md, after:

---
title: Scripts and Utilities Guide
category: Guide
description: Documentation for helper scripts and utilities.
context: Scripts
maintainer: ryumada
---

This directory contains utilities to help docker-odoo deployment.

> Most of these utilities are installed automatically when you run the main `setup.sh` script from the root of the repository. The instructions below are for manual installation or for understanding how they work.

<details>
<summary>

# Backup Data

</summary>

This utilities will backup Odoo database and its datadir into a zip file. This zip file can be restored using Odoo Database Manager.

See the example file to create the data backup utility (`./scripts/example/backupdata.sh.example`).

  1. Copy the example file. This will export the service name from your cloned respository dirname.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cp ./scripts/example/backupdata.sh.example ./scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  2. Edit your example file with your favorite text-editor (`vim` or `nano`, etc)
      ```bash
      vi ./scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  3. You need to find (`ctrl + f`) the `enter` word to see which value should be changed

  4. Save the file and change the permission.
      ```bash
      sudo chmod 755 ./scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  5. Create a soft-link to system-wide bin
      ```bash
      sudo ln -s $PWD/scripts/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME /usr/local/sbin/backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  6. Done, you can try to run the command.
      ```bash
      backupdata-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

</details>

<details>
<summary>

# Database Cloner

</summary>

This utilies will clone the database from the current deployment to it's dev (development), stg (staging), tst (testing), or other deployment.

See the example file to create the database cloner utility (`./scripts/example/databasecloner.sh.example`).

  1. Copy the example file. This will export the service name from your cloned respository dirname.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cp ./scripts/example/databasecloner.sh.example ./scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  2. Edit your example file with your favorite text-editor (`vim` or `nano`, etc)
      ```bash
      vi ./scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  3. You need to find (`ctrl + f`) the `enter` word to see which value should be changed

  4. Save the file and change the permission.
      ```bash
      sudo chmod 755 ./scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  5. Create a soft-link to system-wide bin
      ```bash
      sudo ln -s $PWD/scripts/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME /usr/local/sbin/databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  6. Done, you can try to run the command.
      ```bash
      databasecloner-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

</details>

<details>
<summary>

# Restore Snapshot

</summary>

To use restore snapshot, make sure the main directory (`../`) is has the same name of the archive file. For example, `snapshot-docker-odoo.tar.zst` the main directory name should be `docker-odoo` removing the `snapshot-` prefix and `.tar.zst` suffix.

Before you run the restore snapshot script, you need to prepare [snapshot utilities first](#snapshot-utilities).

</details>

<details>
  <summary>

  # Snapshot Utilities

  </summary>

  See the example file to create the snapshot utility (`./scripts/example/snapshot.sh.example`).

  1. Copy the example file. This will export the service name from your cloned repository dirname.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cp ./scripts/example/snapshot.sh.example ./scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  2. Edit your example file with your favorite text-editor (`vim` or `nano`, etc)
      ```bash
      vi ./scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  3. You need to find (`ctrl + f`) the `enter` word to see which value should be changed

  4. Save the file and change the permission.
      ```bash
      sudo chmod 755 ./scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  5. Create a soft-link to system-wide bin
      ```bash
      sudo ln -s $PWD/scripts/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME /usr/local/sbin/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  6. Add a new crontab to run your script (You can skip this step and continue to step 7 if you don't want to use cron for automatic snapshot).
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      cat << EOF > ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      SHELL=/bin/bash
      PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin

      27 */4 * * * root "/usr/local/sbin/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME"

      EOF

      sudo mv ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME /etc/cron.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo chown root: /etc/cron.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo chmod 644 /etc/cron.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo systemctl restart cron
      ```

      > ⚠️ Replace `$SERVICE_NAME` to the value of your root repository name (`basename "$PWD"`).

  7. Rotate the logfile.
      > ⚠️ Make sure you are in the root repository.
      ```bash
      export SERVICE_NAME=$(basename "$PWD")
      sudo cat << EOF > ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      /var/log/odoo/_utilities/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME.log {
          rotate 4
          su root syslog
          olddir /var/log/odoo/_utilities/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME.log-old
          weekly
          missingok
          #notifempty
          nocreate
          createolddir 775 odoo root
          renamecopy
          compress
          compresscmd /usr/bin/xz
          compressoptions -ze -T 0
          delaycompress
          dateext
          dateformat -%Y%m%d-%H%M%S
      }

      EOF

      sudo chown root: ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo chmod 644 ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      sudo mv ~/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME /etc/logrotate.d/snapshot-$SERVICE_NAME
      ```

  8. You can setup Google Cloud Storage for automatic rotate snapshot file or use `logrotate` on Ubuntu.

  <details>
  <summary>

  ## Setup Google Cloud Storage as the storage of your snapshot

  </summary>

  Setup `google-cloud-cli` to run move your backup file to Google Cloud using `gsutil`
  1. Prepare the key from service account for our server access to gcloud storage
     <details>
     <summary>
     The steps to prepare the service account
     </summary>

     1. Go to this page to get `gcs-backupper` key: https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts
     2. Then, click on your service account (example: gcs-backupper@ryumada.iam.gserviceaccount.com). You will be directed to the detail page of that service account.
     3. Click on the `Keys` tab.
     4. Create a new key by clicking `Add Key` button.
     5. Then click `Create new key` menu.
     6. Download the key as json file and move it to your server.
     7. Move your key file to that directory and set the owner of the keyfile to the user.

      </details>

  2. Install `google-cloud-cli` from GCP Official docs
     <details>
     <summary>
     Follow this docs for the guide:
     </summary>

     [Install the gcloud CLI  |  Google Cloud CLI Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/install)
     </details>

  3. Activate the service account (auth using the json key)
     <details>
     <summary>
      The steps to activate the service account
     </summary>

     1. Move the `json` key file to the server using `scp`

         ```bash
         scp -P $YOUR_SSH_PORT /path/to/your/gcloud_service_account.json odoo@your-server-ip:/opt/.keys/gcloud_service_account.json
         ```

     2. Create a `keys` directory in `/opt` and set up the least permission to the storage.

        ```bash
        sudo mkdir /opt/.keys

        sudo chown $USER: /opt/.keys
        # denied access for other user
        sudo chmod 750 /opt/.keys

        sudo chown $USER: /opt/.keys/gcloud_service_account.json
        sudo chmod 440 /opt/.keys/gcloud_service_account.json
        ```

     3. Use Linux user that used for runnig the backup utility, normally the user is `odoo`

        ```bash
        sudo su odoo
        ```

     4. Activate the service account

        ```bash
        gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file $JSON_KEY_FILE
        ```

        [gcloud auth activate-service-account  |  Google Cloud CLI Documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/activate-service-account)
     </details>

   4. Test your service account

      ```bash
      gsutil ls gs://$YOUR_GCS_BUCKET/
      ```

      The command will list objects available on `$YOUR_GCS_BUCKET` bucket.

      If the command show the list of files, it means that your service account is successfully authenticated.

   5. Setup object lifecycle and versioning to your bucket

      See this documentation to know how it's works:
      - https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/lifecycle
      - https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/object-versioning

  </details>

</details>
